# Getting And Cleaning Data - Samsung Galaxy S Data Course Project
This is my peer-reviewed course project for the "Getting and Cleaning Data" class for the "Data Science Specialization" course on Coursera.

## Key files
* [run_analysis.R](run_analysis.R) - The R script that performs all of the operations on the data, including creating and writing the separate data set of averages.
* [averageOfEachVariable.txt](data/averageOfEachVariable.txt) - The separate data set generated by run_analysis.R that consists of the average of each variable for each subject and activity from the original Samsung Galaxy S gyroscope and accelerometer data.
* [CodeBook.md](docs/CodeBook.md) - The code book that defines each variable and explains what it represents.

## Explaination
Some aspects of this project were open-ended and left up to interpretation, so I will explain some of the choices that I made that others may not have made.

* When completing step five, I chose to have each feature have it's own row, while each column represents either a subject or an activity. I was unsure if I was explicitly intended to do that, or if I was simply supposed to keep each feature as a column, while adding the activities and the subjects as additional columns. I did actually do the latter in my script, but wrote the final data set in the former style, because that's how I interpreted the instruction after reading it over a few times. If that was not what was intended, all I would need to do is remove a few lines and it would produce a data set in the latter style.

* **I did not necessarily complete each step before moving on to the next.** I recognized that choosing to do things in the way I did posed the risk of mixing up data, especially when combining the X and Y data sets. I made absolutely sure to avoid that in multiple ways, such as using "cbind()" and "rbind()" to combine data into a single set, rather than using "merge()", which would have reordered the data preemptively.

* When selecting variables that correspond to the means and standard deviations of variables, **I only chose those that ended in either "mean()" or "std()" _explicitly_.** I could have chosen to include any and all variables that had one or more instances of "mean" or "std", but that seemed to include irrelevant variables. The "features_info.txt" file seems to corroborate this, especially in the section starting on line 31.

* I chose to format the separate data set by **setting each column to be either a subject or an activity**, while **setting each row to the variables whose averages were calculated.**

* Following the advice given in the class, **I chose to make the name of each variable a _single lowercase word_.** I did this by removing hyphens, parentheses pairs (i.e. "()"), and invoking the "tolower()" function to set each variable name completely lowercase. The resulting variable names corresponding to the rows of the data set may not be the most natural to say outloud, but they efficiently convey the information needed to understand what they represent without being overly esoteric.

## Code Book
Please refer to the [code book markdown file](docs/CodeBook.md) for a full explaination of the data set.
